# Rewrite Radicals
This lesson assumes a basic knowledge of exponentiation and will not go over it.
## Exponent Rules
### Negative Exponents
Negative exponents are reciprocals of their positive counterparts. 
$a^{-x}=\dfrac{1}{a^x}$
### Multiplication Rule
The multiplication rule of exponents state that the following is true.
$a^x*a^y=a^{x+y}$
We can see that $a$ is multiplied by itself $x+y$ times in $a^x*a^y$ in the following expansion.
$\underbrace{a*a\ldots*a}_{x-times}*\underbrace{a*a\ldots*a}_{y-times}$
### Division Rule
Building off the [[#Multiplication Rule]] it can be stated that the following is true.
$\dfrac{a^x}{a^y}=a^{x-y}$
This is true because division can be expressed as multiplying the dividend by the reciprocal of the divisor. Knowing that reciprocal can be expressed as the number being reciprocated raised to the power of -1 ($\dfrac{1}{a^y}=a^{-y}$) we can determine that the following is true, and then we can apply the [[#Multiplication Rule]]. 
$\dfrac{a^x}{a^y}=a^x*a^{-y}=a^{x-y}$
Therefore showing that $\dfrac{a^x}{a^y}=a^{x-y}$
### Power of a Product Rule
The power of a product rule of exponents state that the following is true.
$(ab)^x=a^xb^x$
Using a similar technique from [[#Multiplication Rule]] we can see that this is true by writing an expansion of $(ab)^x$.
$(ab)^x=\underbrace{ab*ab\ldots*ab}_{x-times}$
Since $ab$ appears $x$ times we can see that $a$ and $b$ appears $x$ times. This means we can rewrite the expansion by using the commutative property of multiplication to the following.
$(ab)^x=\underbrace{a*a\ldots*a}_{x-times}*\underbrace{b*b\ldots*b}_{x-times}$
This shows $a$ is multiplied by itself $x$ times and so is $b$. Since this is the definition of exponentiation we can finally rewrite the expansion as a power.
$(ab)^x=a^x*b^x$
### Power of a Fraction Rule
Very much like [[#Division Rule]], this is a derivative of [[#Power of a Product Rule]]. This rule states the following.
$\left(\dfrac{a}{b}\right)^x=\dfrac{a^x}{b^x}$
Again very much like [[#Division Rule]] we can use almost the same thought process to prove this. We can rewrite using the reciprocal of $b$ to get $(ab^{-1})^x$. After this we can simply apply [[#Power of a Product Rule]] to simplify.
$\left(\dfrac{a}{b}\right)^x=(ab^{-1})^x=a^xb^{-x}=\dfrac{a^x}{b^x}$
### Zero Exponent
The zero rule of exponents states the following.
$a^0=1$
This can be proved by using [[#Division Rule]].
$\dfrac{a^x}{a^x}=1=a^0$
Any number divided by itself is one, and the [[#Division Rule]] applies we can see $a^0=1$.
## Manipulating Radicals
### Parts of a Radical
Radicals are made up of certain parts. The expression below shows the general usage of a radical.
$\sqrt[n]{x}$
Here are the parts:
$n$ is the index. 
$x$ is the radicand. 
$\sqrt{\phantom{x}}$ is the radical symbol.
It should be noted that if there is no index then it is defined to be two.
### Radical and Exponent Form
#### Introduction
With our current knowledge of radicals it is difficult to make changes to radicals. Although as it turns out there is another form we can change to when dealing with radicals. Introducing exponent form. Exponent form is the idea that any radical can be expressed in the form of the radicand being raised to the power of a rational number (rational exponent).
#### Exponent Form
We can use the following to switch from exponent to radical form.
$x^\frac{1}{n}=\sqrt[n]{x}$
#### Derivation
Given the following knowledge,
$\left(x^\frac{1}{n}\right)^n=x$
$\left(\sqrt[n]{x}\right)^n=x$
We can deduce that the following is true.
$x^\frac{1}{n}=\sqrt[n]{x}$
The first assumption can be made following [[#Power of a Power Rule]]. The second assumption can be made because the radical is the opposite of exponentiation, this may be more easily recognized by looking at the square root. $(\sqrt{x})^2=x$
#### Product Rule for Radicals
The product rule for radicals state the following.
$\sqrt[n]{ab}=\sqrt[n]{a}\sqrt[n]{b}$
We arrive at this conclusion by switching to exponent form as described in [[#Exponent Form]] and then applying [[#Power of a Product Rule]].
$\sqrt[n]{ab}=(ab)^\frac{1}{2}=a^\frac{1}{2}b^\frac{1}{2}=\sqrt[n]{a}\sqrt[n]{b}$
This is a very powerful rule and is used for simplifying radicals and manipulations in general.
#### Fraction Rule for Radicals
The fraction rule for radicals is similar in spirit to [[#Power of a Fraction Rule]], it is a derivative of [[#Product Rule for Radicals]]. The rule states the following is true.
$\sqrt[n]{\dfrac{a^b}{c^d}}=\dfrac{\sqrt[n]{a^b}}{\sqrt[n]{c^d}}$
This uses the almost exact same proof as in [[#Power of a Fraction Rule]].